>> Maximiliano Firtman: From ES1 to ES5,
we were using numbers to
version the language.
The next one was ES6.
We also used six as a number, but
it was the first year of this new pattern
of creating one version per year.
So that's why it's also known as ES2015,
the year that it was released, okay?
From there,
now we have an annual version, and
now we can use the number or
the version, both.
But most of the time,
we use the year number.
So we don't talk about ES14,
we talk about ES2024 or ES2023, okay?
But ES14 actually exists
as well as a version
number to make things more complicated,
okay?
So this is important.
When we are talking about
ECMAScript versions,
we're not talking about platform APIs.
So platform APIs are, for
example, IndexedDB for
database access, or the Fetch API,
or how to access Bluetooth,
or local storage, or
Node.js file system API.
We're not talking about that.
This is just the language,
the core language, and
not actually APIs that you
can use on one platform.
Those APIs are defined by other
committees and other organizations.
The most common one is the W3C.
In the OpenJS Foundation,
you can find a lot of Node APIs.
And also, there are other organizations,
for example,
for WebAssembly, WebGL, WebXR.
They have their own committees, their own
foundations, creating the standards for
those APIs, okay?
So today we will talk just about
ECMAScript, the core language,
not the APIs.
There are other courses at
Frontend Masters where you can find a lot
of information about the platform
libraries on Node or the browser.
There is only one exception to that,
is that we do have
the internationalization API.
That's the one that will let you
not translate your code, but
actually understand
the language differences.
For example, for numbers,
what's the thousandth separator and
the decimal separator?
Is it a comma?
Is it a dot?
Or how the date format that we should
use for different countries, like,
it is month, year, or month, day,
or day, month, things like that.
But that's also an ECMA standard
that goes on Node.js and
the browser, and it's ECMA-402.
But it's a different,
it's a separate committee,
it's a separate process that is
right now creating versions as well.
But all the rest of the APIs that we
have in the browser in Node.js are not
ECMA-based, they're based
on other standards.
And sometimes there is a name in
the community known as ES.Next.
I'm not sure if you're aware of that,
ES.Next.
So it's a non-official name,
actually, to talk about features that
will be in next version of ECMAScript.
Typically, they are in stage 3 or
4, or from this year,
maybe in 2.7,
the new stage that they have created.
So meaning that when they are there,
they are approved.
So it's 99.9% that we kind of be sure that
it's gonna be there in the future, okay?
And because they already have
the recommendation standard spec,
so it's probably not gonna change.
In that case, because it's almost
guaranteed that they will be implemented
in the spec, and that means it will
be implemented in browsers, for
example, or in Node.js later,
if we like that, we can start using it.
And sometimes even some browsers may
already support some of those abilities,
which is kind of interesting.
The problem is that how to
use modern ECMAScript syntax.
It can be ES2024, ES.Next,
I mean, the next version today,
because we have older engines there.
There are typically two
solutions to this problem.
We can use polyfills or transpilers.
What's a polyfill?
A polyfill, it's a JavaScript library
that is trying to fill a hole,
fill a gap, and
it's emulating the new stuff.
In this case, polyfills are only
available for API changes,
new methods, as we mentioned before,
not new operators,
because you cannot change the language.
You can add a method to arrays and
emulate a new behavior, but
you cannot create a new
operator in the language.
And transpilers are typically the way
to go that will solve the problem.
What's a transpiler?
Probably, you have heard about
transpilers or you have used them.
It takes one source code and
it creates another source
code in a different version.
So for example, let's rephrase that.
So they will convert modern
code into older code, and
these transpilers talking
about ECMAScript, okay?
It can be ES6, ES5, ES2020,
you pick the target, okay?
The most common solutions
out there are Babel.
That's probably the one
that you have used,
even if you don't know
that you have used that.
For example, if you have used React,
Babel is inside, okay?
So TypeScript is also a transpiler.
I mean, you can use TypeScript
to just write JavaScript.
Not really, TypeScript is
a strict superset of JavaScript,
and you can use TypeScript
to transpile code.
We have a question.
>> Speaker 1: Is the TypeScript language
regulated by ECMA and all as well?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's
a good question.
So TypeScript is not regulated by
the ECMA-262 of the TC39 committee.
But TypeScript is a strict superset,
which means that it's ECMAScript
plus something else on top.
But it's a different language, has its
own separate process and committee,
and each version of TypeScript typically
is based on one version of ECMAScript.
So they say, okay, TypeScript 2.0,
just giving you any random number,
is based on ECMAScript 2015.
So they have that, plus all the things
that TypeScript is adding on top.
But you can use the TypeScript
compiler to compile ECMAScript,
not TypeScript, because it just works.
Also, you have ESBuilder.
That's another one.
It's actually a builder, it's actually for
bundling files, but
it also transpiles code.
Also, you can use plugins here
when you use transpilers.
Those plugins will even enhance
the language with non-standard features,
for example, ES.Next.
So you can start using
features that are not yet
in the standard today, or JSX.
If you have used React, for example,
JSX is the ability to use kind of XML,
HTML within JavaScript.
So you open angle brackets in JavaScript,
okay?
And that's not ECMAScript-compatible,
but with these plugins, you can use it.
And of course, you need to compile that,
transpile that, into something else.
So with a transpiler, for
example, you can write ES2024.
And then you go through the transpiler and
you get a different file,
and you deploy ES2015, or
you pick the target, okay?
Any number will work.
Or you can write ES.Next and JSX.
You go through the transpiler, and
then you deploy ES5 that will
be compatible even with IE6,
if you wanna target
100% of the population,
including some old corporate
users on IE 11, okay?
So transpilers are our, say, helpers,
our saviors here, so
then we can write code in latest
version of JavaScript using
the latest techniques.
And then we go through the process
of transpiling before publishing
it into the server.
Also, there are some cloud-based
providers these days where you can
transpile on the fly.
So you just deploy your ES2024 file.
The cloud itself, I mean,
the hosting provider,
will do the transpilation for
you to whatever setup,
whatever configuration you set,
like ES5, ES16, or ES2020.